This visualization project was developed as the final project for CS 498 Data Visualization, UIUC using following library
1) D3.js
2) Botostrap
3) JQuery

Hybrid Structure
The visualization uses the interactive slideshow structure.
At the top of the page, you can navigate through the project by clicking
the next page buttons. Reader can select different scene to look at data graph presented in each page.

Scenes:
Three Scenes have been included using consistent layout and template.
Scenes can be navigated with "next" and "previous" button and can be directly accessed using button "Apr"/"May"/"Jun"

Annotations
<p>Annotations are synchronized with the story points in the narrative,
    so data is added to the chart and an annotation is then added to explain the significance of the data.
    They take the place of the author standing at the side of the reader and explaining the chart point by point.</p>

  <p>Annotations for each scene are added at the start of the scene, and timed to point to the specific data
    added to the chart for that scene in order to explain its significance.</p>

  <p>Annotations from the previous scene are removed during transitions so that the reader is
    drawn to the new annotation and point in the story (and also to prevent clutter and hence distraction).</p>

  <p>Annotations use the same template: an opaque grey rectangle with black text and a line directed at the point of interest on the
    chart.</p>
Parameters
The common parameters for all scenes are as follows:
Scene number - scenes are rendered in the same window, and scene number is a parameter that drives the presentation.
Scene title, sidebar text, chart titles- these elements are parameters that change based on the scene
Parameters that are specific to the author-driven portion (scenes 0-3) are:
Annotation aiming point, position, text - annotations are parameterized with an aiming point (using data coordinates rather than screen coordinates), a text offset and the content of the annotation
Chart type and axis, date range - depending on the scene and point being made, the visualization will show or hide one or another of the two main axes (citations, papers) and limit the date range to draw reader focus on a certain period of time.
Parameters that are specific to the reader-drive portion (last scene):
Publication type filters - user can select/filter the chart by publication type
Publication type hovered over - the type currently hovered over is visually filtered off the display
Range brushed - the date and citation ranges are determined by the rectangular selection (brush) on the chart
Category color - color is used to mark publication type on the chart
Papers - a text table showing the list of papers selected is rendered at the bottom of the page
Narrative visualization states
The visualization is basically a state machine. The scene number drives many of the other parameters, such as title, annotations, graph types and date ranges.

The user can move back and forth through the state machine, and transitions are implied in both forward and reverse for these transitions.

For the exploratory/reader-driven portion there is a state machine within a state machine, as the visualization must track whether the selection brush is active, which types have been filtered out, and whether or not the user is dragging the selection brush.

Triggers
The first trigger is the completion of the HTML page load, which invokes the routines to initialize the visualization.

This is followed by the CSV data load, during which a "Loading data ... " message is presented. When the CSV data load finishes a trigger causes the first scene to be rendered.

The user advances through the presentation by clicking the forward- and backward buttons. This triggers a change in state variable (scene/frame) which updates the page buttons (active/inactive/selected) as well as the common parameters described above: scene title, chart title, sidebar text, chart, axis, date range.

On the reader-driven chart, mousing over the type legend triggers an update in opacity of points on the scatterplot to highlight the type currently being hovered over.

Mousing over the scatterplot causes the cursor to change to a plus +. This lets the user know that a brush selection action is possible.

Selecting a region on the scatterplot with mouse causes the circles (data points) to be highlighted under the selected region.

Finishing a brush selection on the scatterplot causes the papers under the selection region to be shown in the text table below the chart.

Clicking the checkbox on the type legend on the scatterplot causes a filter to be applied which then triggers an update to delect papers of that type from the plot and the table
